# Developer Kiosk

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Included Components](#included-components)
- [Metrics](#metrics)
- [Customization](#customization)

<a name="introduction"></a>
## Introduction

The Spark developer Kiosk is a special area of your Spark application that is only accessible to developers and provides unique developer-only features such as [creating announcements](/docs/2.0/announcements), viewing application revenue, impersonating other users, etc.

#### Developer Middleware

Any routes that should only be accessible by developers may use the `dev` middleware. All of the default Kiosk routes included with Spark are automatically configured to use this middleware:

    Route::get('/dev', ['middleware' => 'dev', function () {
        //
    }]);

<a name="configuration"></a>
## Configuration

The user accounts which have access to the Kiosk are defined in the `$developers` property of the `App\Providers\SparkServiceProvider` class. Simply add the e-mail addresses of the accounts you wish to be considered as "developers".

If you would like to dynamically set your developer list, you may use the `Spark::developers` method which accepts an array of developer e-mail addresses:

    Spark::developers($developers);

<a name="included-components"></a>
## Included Components

Spark includes several Kiosk components out of the box. We'll review each of them and their purpose below.

#### Announcements

This component allows you to create announcements for your users. These announcements can be used to announce status updates, new features, links to blog posts, etc. Announcements are a great way to keep your users up to speed on what is going on with your application.

#### Metrics

This component displays a variety of performance / revenue metrics for your application, such as monthly recurring revenue, total revenue, new registrations, as well as the number of user subscriptions per plan. This component may be used to get a basic overview of the growth of your application.

#### User Search / Profile

This component allows you to search for users by name or e-mail address. The `*` character may be used when searching to represent a wildcard. For example, searching for `matt*` will return all users with a name that begins with `matt`.

You may click the view / magnifying glass icon on a user search result to view that user's profile, which includes a button to impersonate that user, as well as the total revenue generated by that customer.

<a name="metrics"></a>
## Metrics

This component displays a variety of performance / revenue metrics for your application, such as monthly recurring revenue, total revenue, new registrations, as well as the number of user subscriptions per plan. This component may be used to get a basic overview of the growth of your application.

To capture nightly metrics, make sure to schedule the `spark:kpi` Artisan command to run nightly in your application's `app/Console/Kernel.php` file. Of course, you'll also need to schedule a "Cron" job to run the `schedule:run` Artisan command every minute. For more information on scheduled commands, check out the [relevant Laravel documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/scheduling):

    $schedule->command('spark:kpi')->dailyAt('23:55');

<a name="customization"></a>
## Customization

Adding your own panels to the Kiosk is a breeze. Simply customize the `resources/views/vendor/spark/kiosk.blade.php` view to include an additional tab link and tab panel. You are free to check out the included views as an example of how to write your own Kiosk components. However, you are not required to make your Kiosk panel a Vue component.
